# Netflix-Movies-TV-Shows-EDA-and-clustring

Netflix is a prominent OTT platform with a wide variety of content to view from a variety of nations and genres, so keep an eye on it. As of 2019, the dataset contains TV shows and movies available on Netflix. Fixable, a third-party Netflix search engine, provided the data for this study. The purpose is to forecast clusters based on similar content by comparing text-based features, in this example, the description column, which is a brief graphic overview of the contents.

Problem Statement: This dataset consists of TV shows and movies available on Netflix as of 2019. The dataset is collected from Flexible which is a third-party Netflix search engine. In 2018, they released an interesting report which shows that the number of TV shows on Netflix has nearly tripled since 2010. The streaming service’s number of movies has decreased by more than 2,000 titles since 2010, while its number of TV shows has nearly tripled. It will be interesting to explore what all other insights can be obtained from the same dataset. Integrating this dataset with other external datasets such as IMDB ratings, rotten tomatoes can also provide many interesting findings.

Approach: Our first step was to import the dataset through pandas ‘read_csv’ then data wrangling and feature engineering in our dataset. This dataset consists of TV shows and movies available on Netflix as of 2019.Dataset contains 7787 rows & 12 columns. It will be interesting to explore what all other insights can be obtained from the same dataset. There are null values in four columns. Then we did Null value treatment and removed all the null values. After this we perform various EDA on a given data set.

Conclusions: There are about 70% movies and 30% TV shows on Netflix. The United States has the highest number of contents on Netflix by a huge margin followed by India. Raul Campos and Jan Salter collectively have directed the most content on Netflix. Anupam Kher has acted in the highest number of films on Netflix. Drama is the most popular genre followed by comedy. Most of the content is released in the holiday season October, November, December and January. The number of releases has significantly increased after 2015 and have dropped in 2021 because of Covid 19.
